"Sometimes a hypocrite is nothing more than a man in the process of changing."
"The most important words a man can say are, "I will do better."
"To love the journey is to accept no such end. I have found, through painful experience, that the most important step a person can take is always the next one."
"Accept the pain, but don't accept that you deserved it."
"I will take responsibility for what I have done.If I must fall, I will rise each time a better man."
"Yes, I began my journey alone, and I ended it alone. But that does not mean that I walked alone."
"A journey will have pain and failure. It is not only the steps forward that we must accept. It is the stumbles. The trials. The knowledge that we will fail. That we will hurt those around us. But if we stop, if we accept the person we are when we fall, the journey ends. That failure becomes our destination. To love the journey is to accept no such end. I have found, through painful experience, that the most important step a person can take is always the next one."
"But merely being tradition does not make something worthy. We can't just assume that because something is old it is right."
"As long as you keep trying, there's a chance. When you give up? That's when the dream dies."
"Life was about momentum. Pick a direction and don't let anything—man or storm— turn you aside."
"Plan every battle as if you will inevitably retreat, but fight every battle like there is no backing down."
"In all the history of mankind, has any conqueror decided they had enough? Has any man just said, ‘This is good. This is what I wanted,’ and gone home?"
"I doubt any dragon ever had it so good anyway."
"I could not become a dragon. I am an utter and complete failure."
"You should try to understand what they want out of life, and respect that, rather than projecting onto them what you think they should want out of life."
"If the journey itself is indeed the most important piece, rather than the destination itself, then I traveled not to avoid duty—but to seek it."
"Life before death, strength before weakness, journey before destination."
"I will protect those I hate. Even...even if the one I hate most is... myself."
"Failure is the mark of a life well lived. In turn, the only way to live without failure is to be of no use to anyone."
"But maybe you shouldn’t be looking for life to be easier because you choose to do something that is right!"
"We lift the bridge together.And we carry it"
"The best liars are those who tell the truth most of the time."
"The first step to being in control was to see yourself as capable of being in control."
"It is not perfection we seek, for perfection is impossible. It is instead consistency."
"If nobody asked questions, then we would never learn anything."
"Pride doesn't win battles."
"No one ever accomplished anything by being content with who they were.We accomplish great things by reaching toward who we could become. As long as it’s what you want to become. Not what someone else thinks you should become."
"Trying to guess what people wish of you will only lead to chaos."
"There's always another secret."
"That's kind of what trust is, isn't it? A willful self-delusion."
"Our belief is often strongest when it should be weakest. That is the nature of hope."
"Men rarely see their own actions as unjustified."
"That’s the funny thing about arriving somewhere. Once you’re there, the only thing you can really do is leave again."
"When you're alone, no one can betray you"
"What is belief - what is faith - if you don't continue it after failure?"
"If you’re always on time, it implies that you never have anything better you should be doing."
"You can't just avoid the game by saying you don't want to play."
"The man who wants you to trust him is the one you must fear the most."
"Sometimes, people only seem determined upon one course because they have been offered no other options."
"Unapplied knowledge benefited no one."
"Good men don't become legends.Good men don't need to become legends.They just do what’s right anyway."
"But must not even a madman rely on his own mind, his own experience, rather than that of others?"
"What is a government but an institutionalized method of making sure somebody else does all the work?"
"It's easy to believe in something when you win all the time...The losses are what define a man's faith."
"A man can only stumble for so long before he either falls or stands up straight."
"A man was defined not by his flaws, but by how he overcame them."
"Books have great value, actions have greater value."
"Good men can make terrible kings, but bad men cannot make good kings"
"If you perpetuate the dreams of the past, you stifle your own dreams of the future."
"People who underestimated you were easier to manipulate."
"If people can't tell when I'm being an idiot and when I'm being a genius, perhaps they'll assume my blunders are brilliant maneuvers."
"Somehow, we'll find it. The balance between whom we wish to be and whom we need to be. But for now, we simply have to be satisfied with who we are."
"If you give up what you want most for what you think you should want more, you'll end up miserable."
"Faith means that it doesn't matter what happens. You can trust that somebody is watching. Trust that somebody will make it all right."
"To believe, one had to want to believe."
"Good men will kill as quickly for what they want as evil men. Only the things they want are different."
"People with passion are people who will destroy—for a man's passion is not true until he proves how much he's willing to sacrifice for it. Will he kill? Will he go to war? Will he break and discard that which he has, all in the name of what he needs?"
"Never let your life depend on the competence of someone whose life isn’t also on the line."
"But things can't stay the same- and that's well, for when nothing changes in your life, it's as good as being dead"
"There was honor in facing the consequences of one’s actions. Wasn’t there?"
"Sometimes, you have to destroy something in order to build something better."
"Better to trust and be betrayed."
"What is so alluring about the real world that gives them all such a fetish for it?"
"You’d be surprised at what men will go through in order to get themselves properly intoxicated."
"A good crewleader is always sure of himself, even when he isn't. Especially when he isn't"
"He doesn’t know as much as he thinks. That is his weakness. The weakness of all clever men."
"And some men look nice with beards. So they don’t ever have to face themselves in the mirror when they shave.”
"I believe that life is a game, that life is a cruel joke, and that life is what happens when you're alive and that you might as well lie back and enjoy it."
"As sure as water's wet and days are long and a friend will always disappoint you in the end."
"Don't start anything you're not prepared to finish."
"Call no man happy, until he is dead."
"Information and knowledge: two currencies that have never gone out of style."
"You can always cheat an honest man, but it takes more work."
"Angry gets shit done."
"I know it's crooked, but it's the only game in town."
"You do your own time in prison. You don't do anyone else's time for them."
"Pain hurts, just as greed intoxicates and lust burns."
"And that life is what happens when you’re alive, and that you might as well lie back and enjoy it."
"Poetry ain’t what you’d call truth. There ain’t room enough in the verses."
"If he walked, he discovered, he did not have to think, and that was just the way he liked it; when he thought, his mind went to places he could not control, places that made him feel uncomfortable. Exhaustion was the best thing."
"Knowing your own ignorance is the first step to enlightenment."
"All the truth in the world is held in stories."
"It’s not over if you’re still here. It’s not a tragedy if you’re still alive."
"That is how heavy a secret can become. It can make blood flow easier than ink."
"A tree doesn't make a thunderstorm, but any fool knows where lightning's going to strike."
"Beloved distant blue\nOne day I’ll die for you\nAnd swim in sweet serenity\n‘Cause death is not my enemy"
"I learned how much power over a situation you gain when you decide that you don't care what others think of you."
"A man found himself when he was alone. You only had one person to chat with, one person to blame."
"The law is not something holy, son. It’s just a reflection of the ideals of those lucky enough to be in charge."
"No, freedom was not lack of responsibilities—it was being able to do what was right, without having to worry if it was also wrong."
"To believe in a God was to accept that He or She wasn’t going to deliver you from every problem."
"If you want to know a man, dig in his firepit...Basically, it meant that you could judge a lot about a man's life by what he thew away - or by what he was willing to burn in order to stay warm."
"Proper loafing requires company. One man lying about is being idle; two men lying about is a lunch break."
"It's better if I have a hat...You wanna know a guy? Put on his hat."
"You could tell a lot about people from the way they talked. You saw their past, their upbringing, their aspirations—all in the words they used."
"Seems to me that it would be nice to finally be done, you know? It’s like … like you’re running a race, and you don’t know quite where the end is, but you got an idea. An’ you only need to make it that far. I can do that, I figure. But you, you don’t have no end."
"Owning things of value is secondary to creating things of value where none once existed."
"Aye, it’s part training," Dallet said, shaking his head. "But it’s mostly him. He fights like a storm, that one, and thinks twice as fast as other men. The way he moves sometimes..."
"There was a certain power in that, a freedom. The freedom of not having to care."
"Death isn’t better," Kaladin said, looking Teft in the eyes. "Oh, it’s easy to say that now. But when you stand on the ledge and look down into that dark, endless pit, you change your mind."
"You were not shocked when a child knew how to breathe. You were not shocked when a skyeel took flight for the first time. You should not be shocked when you hand Kaladin Stormblessed a spear and he knows how to use it."
"It said that those who led were the lowest of men, for they were required to serve everyone."
"Never fight other men except when forced to in war."
"Let your actions defend you, not your words."
"Expect honor from those you meet, and give them the chance to live up to it."
"Rule as you would be ruled."
"Care. The key to fighting isn’t lack of passion, it’s controlled passion. Care about winning. Care about those you defend."
"The first step is to care, Tukks’s voice seemed to whisper. Some talk about being emotionless in battle. Well, I suppose it’s important to keep your head. But I hate that feeling of killing while calm and cold. I’ve seen that those who care fight harder, longer, and better than those who don’t. It’s the difference between mercenaries and real soldiers. It’s the difference between fighting to defend your homeland and fighting on foreign soil. It’s good to care when you fight, so long as you don’t let it consume you. Don’t try to stop yourself from feeling. You’ll hate who you become."
"Somebody has to start. Somebody has to step forward and do what is right, because it is right. If nobody starts, then others cannot follow."
"All stories told have been told before. We tell them to ourselves, as did all men who ever were. And all men who ever will be. The only things new are the names."
"He saw it in her eyes. The anguish, the frustration. The terrible nothing that clawed inside and sought to smother her. She knew. It was there, inside. She had been broken. Then she smiled. Oh, storms. She smiled anyway. It was the single most beautiful thing he’d seen in his entire life."
"A good fight was about momentum. Don’t stop. Don’t think. Drive forward and convince your enemies that they’re as good as dead already. That way, they’ll fight you less as you send them to their pyres."
"He was needed. Life before death. This was what he did."
"Integrity doesn’t stop men from killing. It just makes them use different justifications."
"Our weakness doesn’t make us weak. Our weakness makes us strong. For we had to carry it all these years."
"Strength before weakness. He was coming to understand that part of his first oath. He had discovered weakness in himself, but that wasn't something to be ashamed of. Because of that weakness, he could help in ways nobody could."
"But sir, do you know why I get up each day?" Lirin shook his head. "It’s hard sometimes," Noril said, stirring. "Coming awake means leaving the nothingness, you know? Remembering the pain. But then I think, ‘Well, he gets up.’" "You mean Kaladin?" Lirin asked. "Yes, sir," Noril said. "He’s got the emptiness, bad as I do. I can see it in him. We all can. But he gets up anyway. We’re trapped in here, and we all want to do something to help. We can’t, but somehow he can. "And you know, I’ve listened to ardents talk. I’ve been poked and prodded. I’ve been stuck in the dark. None of that worked as well as knowing this one thing, sir. He still gets up. He still fights. So I figure … I figure I can too." 
"When good men disobeyed, it was time to look at your orders."
"War is the last option of the state that has failed"
"No man can judge another man’s heart or trials, for no man can truly know them"
"Some people charged toward the goal, running for all they had. Others stumbled. But it wasn’t the speed that mattered. It was the direction they were going."
"The heart might provide the purpose, but the head provides the method, the path. Passion is nothing without a plan. Wanting something doesn’t make it happen."
"The best and truest duty of a person is to add to the world."
"If we can choose, we can change. If we can’t change, then choice means nothing."
"That's the trouble with science. Always upending itself. Ruining perfect systems for the little inconvenience of them being wrong."
"And if a tool seemed broken at first glance, perhaps you were simply applying it to the wrong task."
"The challenge, is to make everyone believe you’ve lived a thousand lives. Make them feel the pain you have not felt, make them see the sights you have not seen, and make them know the truths that you have made up."
"Some people charged toward the goal, running for all they had. Others stumbled. But it wasn't the speed that mattered. It was the direction they were going."
"They’d hide under your bed and steal the faces of people you knew. Which made beds soft and squishy on top, with someone underneath you could talk to."
"He could make friends with something what lived unner a bed. You just had to give it something it wanted, like someone else to eat."
“If he was the bravest and strongest,” Wayne said, “why was he a lawman? He could be a bandit, and nobody could stop him!” “What’s harder, love?” she asked. “Doing what’s right or doing what’s wrong?” “Doing what’s right.” “So who gets stronger?” Ma asked. “The fellow what does the easy thing, or what does the hard thing?”
“Never can tell what they’re hiding with those fancy smells. You can’t trust a man what doesn’t smell like a man should.” “Sweat and booze?” “Sweat and cheap booze.”
“I need a knife to get through this,” she said.“You can use my razor-sharp wit.” "Alas, Wayne, you aren’t the type of tool I need at the moment.” “Ha!” he said. “I like that one.”
"City folk, particularly politicians, were intimidated by small arms. They preferred to kill people with more modern weapons, like poverty and despair."
"It had been novel to have a competent governor. Like … eating hotel food and finding it wasn’t awful, or spending time with Wayne and then discovering you still had a pocket watch."
"You gotta give people what they expect, or they won’t believe your lies when you tell them.”
"Those were good stories. Super dumb, of course, but sometimes you needed cheap storytelling with your cheap booze. Didn’t make no sense to read literature while drinking outta a paper sack."
“Nice work, Wayne.” He shrugged. “It’s easy enough when you have a lot to work with.” “That was a lot?” Kim asked, curious. “Sure,” Wayne said, tucking the hat away. “A man’s whole life.”
“What even is that?” Wax asked as Marasi and Kim entered. “He called it ‘chouta.’ It’s good.” “It looks disgusting.” “Aw, mate. With street food, that’s how you know it’s good.”
"Striking first made sense if you thought war was inevitable. But it wasn’t. It didn’t have to be."
“I drink with bastards, liars, and fools. But I draw the line at someone like me.”
“I’m doin’ well, then?” she asked as they locked canes, coming in close together. “I’m you?" “You’re something far, far worse,” he muttered. “You’re someone who wants to be me.”
"It is only in the struggle to survive that a person—a people—achieves their potential.”
"She didn’t need power like that, but duty wasn’t about what you needed. It was about what was needed from you."
"Fleet kept running. He couldn't win, but he kept running. And when the storm caught him, it didn't matter that he’d died, because he'd run for all he had. We all die in the end, you see. So I guess what truly matters is just how well you've run."
“Those men in the bridge crew,” Syl whispered. “You could help them.”\n“Too late.” He closed his eyes, thinking of the dead boy earlier in the day. “It’s too late. I’ve failed. They’re dead. They’re all going to die, and there’s no way out.”\n“What is one more try, then?” Her voice was soft, yet somehow stronger than the storm. “What could it hurt? You can’t fail this time, Kaladin. You’ve said it. They’re all going to die anyway.”
"A man’s emotions are what define him, and control is the hallmark of true strength. To lack feeling is to be dead, but to act on every feeling is to be a child.”
"He wasn’t so boring after all. Secretly, I’ll tell you that you aren’t either. Anyone who tells you otherwise is trying to lower your value. Don’t trust them. They know they can’t afford you otherwise."
"Lem — the man with no debt — needed this favor so badly, he almost asked for it. In the language of men like these, that’s the equivalent of begging."
“Takes a civilization to build a cannon. What? You think there are forests out there growing them spontaneously?”
"Enjoy memories, yes, but don’t be a slave to who you wish you once had been. Those memories aren’t alive. You are."
"If you do nothing, then the problems are as much your fault as if you had instigated them.”
"Protect a flower, destroy the pests who wanted to feed on it.  Protect a building, destroy the plants that could have grown in the soil. Protect a man.  Live with the destruction he creates."
“You don’t have to believe in my miracles.  You can call them accidents or coincidences, if you must.  But don’t pity me for my faith.  And don’t presume that you’re better, just because you believe something different.”
“Even in science, faith plays a role. Each experiment done, each step on the path of knowledge, is achieved by striking out into the darkness. You can’t know what You can’t know what you will find, or that you will find anything at all. It is faith that drives us—faith in answers that must exist.”
"Sometimes, asking the questions is enough. Because it has to be enough. Because sometimes, that’s all there is.”
“If I die, that immediately stops being my problem, then, doesn’t it?”
“Knowing you aren’t strange, is helpful. Knowing others felt like you did. Sometimes it’s the only thing that is helpful.”
“Conquest doesn’t remove countries. It removes lines on a map. Unity requires something else.”
"He’d learned from wise battle commanders that in times of tension, someone making any decision was often better than standing around. But there was a caveat to that lesson. Pithy though it sounded, the leaders who said it were the ones who had lived long enough to pass it on. They were the ones, in the heated moments, who didn’t just make decisions. They made the right decisions."
“You never get to be ready. You just have to move forward anyway."
